#summary Comparison to other JSON / XML mappers

I'm not the first guy who thought about JSON / XML mapping in GWT. Thus Piriti is not the only framework able to deal with JSON / XML data. This page gives an overview of the different techniques and frameworks to (de)serialize JSON and/or XML data. Please note that this list is not exhaustive. Furthermore the rating might be somewhat subjective ;-)
  
== [http://code.google.com/intl/de-DE/webtoolkit/doc/latest/DevGuideCodingBasicsOverlay.html JavaScript Overlay Types] ==
!JavaScript overlay types were introduced in GWT 1.5 to to make it easy to integrate entire families of !JavaScript objects into your GWT project. 
Pro
  * Quick and easy way to map simple JSON data
Cons
  * No support of XML
  * No JSON serialization
  * No custom paths, converters, format, ...   

== [http://code.google.com/p/google-web-toolkit/wiki/AutoBean AutoBean] ==
!AutoBeans are a concept added in GWT 2.1.1. They provide automatically-generated implementations of bean-like interfaces and a low-level serialization mechanism for those interfaces.
Pro
  * Officially supported by GWT 
  * Used by !RequestFactory
  * Can be used in both client and server code
  * Lots of customizations possible
Cons
  * No support of XML
  * No custom paths, converters, format, ...
  * Too much boilerplate IMHO   
  
== [http://restygwt.fusesource.org/documentation/restygwt-user-guide.html#JSON_Encoder_Decoders RestyGWT] ==
RestyGWT is a GWT generator for REST services and JSON encoded data transfer objects. Using RestyGWT you can (de)serialize JSON data in a very similar manner to Piriti.   
Pro
  * Easy to use (convention over configuration)
Cons
  * No support of XML
  * No custom paths, converters, format, ...   

== [http://code.google.com/p/rocket-gwt/wiki/JsonSerialization RocketGWT] ==
The Rocket GWT library/framework consists of a number of components that can assist developers get more out of GWT. One component deals with JSON (de)serialization
Cons
  * Based on Javadoc comments
  * Seems to be somewhat outdated
  
== [http://code.google.com/p/acris/wiki/GWTJsonizer Acris] ==
Acris is a framework for building applications, web sites and portals using Google Web Toolkit. It supports an annotation based JSON (de)serialization package.
Pro
  * Custom deserializers
  * Custom instantiators
  * Map support
Cons
  * No support of XML
  * References must be defined as nested classes 