#summary Extension for the GXT framework.

= Introduction =

[http://www.extjs.com/products/gwt/ GXT] uses the class [http://www.extjs.com/deploy/gxtdocs/com/extjs/gxt/ui/client/data/ModelData.html ModelData] for their widgets. Using the GXT extension it is possible to map XML / JSON data right into GXT models. Simply put GXT models are kind of maps with key value pairs. Hence the the mapping information is placed inside a class annotation with nested mapping annotations:

{{{
@XmlModel({@XmlField(property = "isbn", type = String.class), 
    @XmlField(property = "pages", type = Integer.class),
    @XmlField(property = "title", type = String.class), 
    @XmlField(property = "author", type = Author.class),
    @XmlField(path = "reviews/review", property = "reviews", 
        type = List.class, typeVariable = String.class)})
public class Book extends BaseModel
{
    public interface BookXmlReader extends XmlModelReader<Book>
    {
    }

    public static final BookXmlReader XML = GWT.create(BookXmlReader.class);
}
}}}

= XML Mappnig = 
The XML mapping is done using
  * `@XmlModel` class level annotation which contains several 
  * `@XmlField` annotations together with
  * `XmlModelReader<T extends ModelData>`

= JSON Mapping = 
The JSON mapping is done using
  * `@JsonModel` class level annotation which contains several 
  * `@JsonField` annotations together with
  * `JsonModelReader<T extends ModelData>`

= Differences to the POJO mapping =
Due to the lack of real fields in the GXT model, the mapping annotations have to provide all relevant information: 
  * property: The name of the property in the GXT model.
  * type: A class literal of the properties type.
  * path (optional): An XPath expression to select the XML data. If not specified, the property is taken as a base for the XPath expression.
  * array (optional): True if the type is an array.
  * typeVariable (optional): The type variable in case of a collection
  * format (optional): The format to use when converting the data to the type.
  
The path and format parameters follow the same rules as described in [XMLMapping XML mapping] and [JSONMapping JSON mapping].
  
= Arrays =

= Collections = 